# Present Perfect Continuous

Is it raining?

No, but the ground is wet.

It **has been raining**.

**Have/has been V-ing** is the present perfect continuous:

- I/we/they/you **have** (= I've etc.) **been V-ing**
- He/she/it **has** (= He's etc.) **been V-ing**

We use the present perfect continuous for an activity that has recently stopped or just stopped.
There is a connection with now:

- You're out of breath. **Have** you **been running**? (= you're out of breath now)
- Paul is very tired. He's **been working** very hard. (= he's tired now)
- Why are your clothes so dirty? What **have you been doing**?
- I've **been talking** to Amanda about the problem and she agrees with me.
- Where have you been? I've **been looking** for you everywhere

---
**It has been raining for two hours.**

Study this example situation:

`It began raining two hours ago and it is still raining.`

`How long has it been raining?`

`It has been raining for two hours.`

We use the present perfect continuous in this way especially
with **how long, for ...** and **since ...** . The activity is still
happening (as in this example) or has just stopped.

- How long **have** you **been learning** English? (= you're still learning English)
- Tim is still watching TV. He's **been watching** TV all day.
- Where have you been? I've **been looking** for you for the last half hour.
- Chris hasn't **been feeling** well recently.

You can use the present perfect continuous for actions repeated over a period of time:

- Silvia is a very good tennis player. She's **been playing since she was eight**.
- Every morning they meet in the same cafe. They've **been going** there **for years**.