# Present tense (I'm doing / I do) for the future

Present continuous (**I am doing**) with a future meaning

This is Ben's diary for next week.

He **is playing** tennis on Monday afternoon.

He **is going** to the dentist on Tuesday morning.

He **is having** dinner with Kate on Friday.

In all these examples, Ben has already decided and arranged to do these things.

---

**I'm doing** something (tomorrow) = I have already decided and arranged to do it:

- `A: What are you doing on Saturday evening? (not What do you do)`

    `B: I'm going to the theatre, (not I go)`

- `A: What time is Katherine arriving tomorrow?`

    `B: Half past ten. I'm meeting her at the station.`

- **I'm not working** tomorrow, so we can go out somewhere.

- **Steve isn't playing** football next Saturday. He's hurt his leg.

'I'm **going to (do)**' is also possible in these sentences:

- What **are** you **going to do** on Saturday evening?

But the present continuous is more natural when we talk about arrangements.

Do not use **will** to talk about what you have arranged to do:

- What **are** you **doing** this evening? (not What will you do)

- Alex **is getting** married next month. (not will get)

You can also use the present continuous for an action *just before you begin to do it*. This
happens especially with verbs of movement **(go/come/leave** etc.):

- I'm tired. I'm **going** to bed now. Goodnight, (not I go to bed now)
- ‘Jess, are you ready yet?' - 'Yes, I'm **coming**.' (not I come)

---

*Present simple* (**I do**) with a future meaning

We use the present simple when we talk about timetables, programmes etc. (for public
transport, cinemas etc.):

- My train **leaves** at 11.30, so I need to be at the station by 11.15.
- What time **does** the film **start** this evening?
- **It's** Wednesday tomorrow. / Tomorrow **is** Wednesday.

You can use the present simple to talk about people if their plans are fixed like a timetable:

- I **start** my new job on Monday.
- What time **do** you **finish** work tomorrow?

But the continuous is more usual for personal arrangements:

- What time **are** you **meeting** Ann tomorrow? (not do you meet)
