# Can, Could and (be) able to

We use **can** to say that something is possible or allowed, or that somebody has the ability to do
something. We use can +infinitive (can do / can see etc.):

- We **can** see the lake from our hotel.
- 'I don't have a pen.' ‘You **can** use mine.'
- **Can** you speak any foreign languages?
- I **can** come and see you tomorrow if you like.
- The word ‘dream' **can** be a noun or a verb.

The negative is **can’t** (= **can not**):

- I'm afraid I **can't** come to the party on Friday.

---

You can say that somebody **is able to** do something, but can is more usual:

- We are able to see the lake from our hotel.

But **can** has only two forms: **can** (*present*) and **could** (*past*). So sometimes it is necessary to use **(be) able to**. Compare:

| **Can/could** | **Be able to** |
| ------------- | -------------- |
| I **can't** sleep | I **haven't been able to** sleep recently |
| Ton **can** come tomorrow | Tom **might be able to** come tomorrow |
| Maria **can** speak English, French and Spanish | Applicants for the job **must be able to** speak two foreign languages |

---

## **Could**

Sometimes **could** is the past of can. We use could especially with:

`see` / `hear` / `smell` / `taste` / `feel` / `remember` / `understand`

- We had a lovely room in the hotel. We **could see** the lake.
- As soon as I walked into the room, I **could smell** gas.
- I was sitting at the back of the theatre and **couldn't hear** very well.

We also use could to say that somebody had the general ability or permission to do something:

- My grandfather **could speak** five languages.
- We were totally free. We **could do** what we wanted. (= we were allowed to do)

---

## **Could** and **was able to**

We use **could** for general ability. But if you want to say that somebody did something in a specific
situation, use **was/were able to** or **managed to** (*not* **could**):

- The fire spread through the building very quickly, but fortunately everybody **was able to
escape / managed to escape**, (*not* could escape)
- We didn't know where David was, but we **managed to find / were able to find** him in the
end. (*not* could find)

Compare:

- Jack was an excellent tennis player when he was younger. He **could beat** anybody.

    (= he had the *general* ability to beat anybody)

*but*

- Jack and Andy played a match yesterday. Andy played well, but Jack **managed to beat** him.

    (= he managed to beat him this time)

The negative couldn't (could not) is possible in all situations:

- My grandfather **couldn't swim**.
- We looked for David everywhere, but we **couldn't find** him.
- Andy played well, but he **couldn't beat** Jack.
