# Could (do) and Could have (done) 

We use could in a number of ways. Sometimes **could** is the past of **can**:

- Listen. I **can hear** something. (*now*)
- I listened. I **could hear** something. (*past*)

But **could** is not only used in this way. We also use **could** to talk about possible actions *now* or *in
the future* (especially to make suggestions). For example:

- A : What shall we do tonight?

    B : We **could go** to the cinema

- A : When you go to Paris next month,
you **could stay** with Sarah.

    B : Yes, I suppose I **could**.

**Can** is also possible in these sentences ('We **can** go to the
cinema.' etc.). **Could** is less *sure* than **can**.

---

We also use **could** (*not* **can**) for actions that are not realistic. For example:

- I'm so tired, I **could sleep** for a week. (*not* I can sleep for a week)

Compare **can** and **could**:

- I **can stay** with Sarah when I go to Paris. (realistic)
- Maybe I **could stay** with Sarah when I go to Paris. (possible, but less sure)
- This is a wonderful place. I **could stay** here for ever. (unrealistic)

---

We also use **could** (*not* **can**) to say that something (a situation or a happening) is possible now or in
the future. The meaning is similar to **might** *or* **may**:

- The story **could be** true, but I don't think it is. (*not* can be true)
- I don't know what time Lisa is coming. She **could get** here at any time.

Compare **can** and **could**:

- The weather **can** change very quickly in the mountains. (in general)
- The weather is nice now, but it **could** change. (the weather now, not in general)

---

We use **could have (done)** to talk about the past. Compare:

- I'm so tired, I **could sleep** for a week. (*now*)
- I was so tired, I **could have slept** for a week. (*past*)

- The situation is bad, but it **could be** worse. (*now*)
- The situation was bad, but **it could have been** worse. (*past*)

Something **could have happened** = it was possible but did not happen:

- Why did you stay at a hotel when you were in Paris? You **could have stayed** with Sarah,
(you didn't stay with her)

- David was lucky. He **could have hurt** himself when he fell, but he's OK.

---

We use **couldn't** to say that something would not be possible:

- I **couldn't live** in a big city. I’d hate it. (= it wouldn't be possible for me)
- Everything is fine right now. Things **couldn't be** better.

For the past we use **couldn't have (done)**:

- We had a really good holiday. It **couldn't have been** better.
- The trip was cancelled last week. Paul **couldn't have gone** anyway because he was il

    (= it would not have been possible for him to go)
