# Have to and Must

I **have to** do something = it is necessary to do it, I am obliged to do it:

- You can't turn right here. You **have to** turn left.

- I **have to** wear glasses for reading.

- Robert can't come out with us this evening. He **has to** work late.

- Last week Tina broke her arm and **had to** go to hospital.

- I haven't **had to go** to the doctor for ages.

We use **do/does/did** in questions and negative sentences (for the present and past simple):

- What **do** I **have to** do to get a new driving licence? (*not* What have I to do?)

- Karen **doesn't have to** work Saturdays. (*not* Karen hasn't to)

- Why **did** you **have to** leave early?

You can say **I'll have to** ... , **I’m going to have to** ... and **I might / I may have to** ...:

- They can't fix my computer, so **I'll have to buy** a new one. or

- **I’m going to have to** buy a new one.

- Tom **might have to** work late tomorrow, or Tom may have to work ...
(= it's possible that he will have to)

---

**Must** is similar to **have to**:

- It's later than I thought. I must go. or I have to go.

You can use **must** or **have to** to give your own opinion (for example, to say whatyou think is
necessary or to recommend someone to do something):

- I haven't spoken to Sue for ages. I **must phone** her. / I **have to phone** her.

    (= I say this is necessary)

- Mark is a really nice person. You **must meet** him. / You **have to meet** him.

    (I recommend this)

We use **have to** (not usually must) to say what someone is obliged to do. The speaker is not giving
his/her own opinion:

- I **have to work** from 8.30 to 5.30 every day. (a fact, not an opinion)

- Jane **has to travel** a lot for her work.

But must is used in written rules and instructions:

- Applications for the job **must be received** by 18 May.

- (exam instruction) Answer all the questions. You **must write** your answers in ink.

You cannot use **must** to talk about the past:

- We didn't have much time. We **had to** hurry, (not we must hurry)

---

**Mustn't** and **don't have to** are completely different:

| **Must** | **Don't have to** |
| -------- | ----------- |
|You **mustn't** do something = it is necessary that you do not do it (so don't do it) | You **don't have to** do something = you don't need to do it (but you can if you want) |
| You must keep this a secret. You **mustn't** tell anyone. (= don't tell anyone) | You **don’t have to** tell Tom what happened. I can tell him myself. |
| I promised I would be on time. I **mustn't** be late. (= I must be on time) | I **don't have to** be at the meeting, but I think I’ll go anyway|

---

You can use **have got to** instead of **have to**. So you can say:

- **I've got to** work tomorrow.

    *or* **I have to** work tomorrow.

- When **has** Helen **got to** go?

    *or* When **does** Helen **have to** go?
