# Should

You **should do** something = it is a good thing to do or the right thing to do. You can use **should** to
give advice or to give an opinion:

- You look tired. You **should go** to bed.

- The government **should do** more to improve education.

- **‘Should** we **invite** Stephanie to the party?' 'Yes, I think we **should**.'

We often use **should** with **I think / I don't think / Do you think** ... ?:

- I **think** the government **should do** more to improve education.

- I **don't think** you **should work** so hard.

- **Do you think** I **should apply** for this job?' ‘Yes, I think you should.'

You **shouldn't do something** = it isn't a good thing to do:

- You **shouldn't believe** everything you read in the newspapers.

**Should** is not as strong as **must** or **have to**:

- You **should apologise**. (= it would be a good thing to do)

- You **must apologise**. / You **have to apologise**. (= you have no alternative)

---

You can use **should** when something is not right or what you expect:

- Where's Tina? She **should be** here by now.

    (= she isn't here yet, and this is not normal)

- The price on this packet is wrong. It **should be** £2.50,
not £3.50.

- That man on the motorbike **should be wearing** a helmet.

We also use **should** to say that we expect something to happen:

- Helen has been studying hard for the exam, so she **should pass**.

    (= I expect her to pass)

- There are plenty of hotels in the town. It **shouldn't be** hard to
find a place to stay.

    (= I don't expect it to be hard)

---

You **should have done** something = you didn't do it, but it would have been the right thing to do:

- You missed a great party last night. You **should have come**. Why didn't you?

    (= you didn't come, but it would have been good to come)

- I wonder why they're so late. They **should have got** here long ago.

You **shouldn't have done** something = you did it, but it was the wrong thing to do:

- I'm feeling sick. I **shouldn't have eaten** so much. (= I ate too much)

- She **shouldn't have been listening** to our conversation. It was private.

    (= she was Listening)

Compare should (do) and should have (done):

- You look tired. You should go to bed now.

- You went to bed very Late last night. You should have gone to bed earlier.

---

**Ought to ...**

You can use **ought to** instead of **should** in the sentences on this page. We say ‘**ought to do**' (with **to**):

- Do you think I **ought to apply** for this job? (= Do you think I should apply ... ?)

- Jack **ought not to go** to bed so late. (= Jack shouldn't go ...)

- It was a great party last night. You **ought to have come**.

- Helen has been studying hard for the exam, so she **ought to pass**.

---

You can use **should** after:

`insist` / `recommend` / `suggest` / `demand` / `propose`

- I **insisted** that he **should apologise**.

- Doctors **recommend** that everyone **should eat** plenty of fruit.

- What do you **suggest** we **should do**?

- Many people are **demanding** that something **should be** done about the problem.

*also*

**It's important/vital/necessary/essential that**... **should** ... :

- It's **essential** that everyone **should be** here on time.

You can also leave out **should** in all sentences above. So you can say:

- **It's essential** that everyone **be** here on time. (= ... that everyone **should be** here)

- I **insisted** that he **apologise**. (= ... that he **should apologise**)

- What do you **suggest** we **do**?

- Many people are **demanding** that something **be done** about the problem.

This form (**be/do/apologise** etc.) is called the *subjunctive*. It is the same as the *infinitive* (without **to**).

You can also use normal present and past tenses:

- **It's essential** that everyone **is** here on time.

- **I insisted** that he **apologised**

---

After **suggest**, you cannot use **to** ... ('to do / to buy’ etc.). You can say:

- What do you **suggest we should do**?

    *or* What do you **suggest we do?**

    (**but not** What do you suggest us to do?)

- Jane won the lottery.

    - **I suggested** that she **should buy** a car with the money she'd won.

        *or* **I suggested** that she **buy** a car.

        *or* **I suggested** that she **bought** a car.

        (**but not** I suggested her to buy)

---

You can use **should** after a number of adjectives, especially:

`strange` / `odd` / `funny` / `typical` / `natural` / `interesting`

- It's **strange** that he **should be** late. He's usually on time.

- I was **surprised** that he **should say** such a thing

---

You can say "**if** something **should** happen..." For example:

- We have no jobs at present, but if the situation **should** **change**, we will contact you.

You can also begin with **should** (**Should** something happen ...):

- **Should** the situation **change**, we will contact you.

This means the same as "**If** the situation **changes**, ..." With **should**, the speaker feels that the
possibility is smaller.

---

You can use **I should** ... / **I shouldn't**... to give somebody advice. For example:

- ‘Shall I leave now?' ‘No, I **should wait** a bit.'

Here, I **should wait** = I would wait if i were you, I advise you to wait.

More examples:

- ‘I'm going out now. Is it cold out?' ‘Yes, I **should wear** a coat.'

- I **shouldn't stay** up too late. You have to be up early tomorrow.
