# Had better, It's time...

**Had better** (**I'd better** / **you'd better** etc.)

**I'd better do** something = it is advisable to do it. If i don't do it, there will be a problem or danger:

- I have to meet Amy in ten minutes. **I'd better go** now or I'll be late.

- ‘Shall I take an umbrella?' ‘Yes, **you'd better**. It might rain/

- **We’d better stop** for petrol soon. The tank is almost empty

The negative is **I'd better not** (= **I had better not**):

- 'The jacket looks good on you. Are you going to buy it?' **I'd better not**. It's too expensive.'

-_ You don't look very well. **You'd better not go** out tonight.

Remember that:

The form is '**had** better' (usually **I'd better/you'd better**' etc. in spoken English).

- **I’d better phone** Chris, hadn't I?

**Had** is normally past, but the meaning of **had better** is *present* or *future*, not *past*,

- **I'd better go** to the bank now / tomorrow.

We say '**I'd better do**' (not to do):

- It might rain. **We'd better take** an umbrella, (not We'd better to take)

---

## **Had better** and **should**

**Had better** is similar to **should**, but not exactly the same. We use **had better** only for a specific
situation, not for things in general. You can use should in all types of situations to give an opinion or
give advice:

- It's late. **You'd better go**. / You **should go**. (a specific situation)

- You're always at home. You **should go** out more often, (in general - *not* ‘had better go’)

Also, with **had better**, there is always a danger or a problem if you don't follow the advice.
**Should** means only ‘it is a good thing to do'. Compare:

- It's a great film. You **should go** and see it. (but no problem if you don't)

- The film starts at 8.30. **You'd better go** now or you'll be late.

---

## It's time ...

You can say **it's time** (for somebody) **to** ... :

- **It's time** to go home. / **It's time** for us to go home.

But you can also say:

- It's Late. **It's time** we **went** home.

When we use **it's time + past** (we **went** / I **did** / they **were** etc.), the meaning is *present*, *not* past:

- **It's time** they **were** here. Why are they so late? (not It's time they are here)

**It's time** somebody **did** something - they should have already done it or started it. We often use this
structure to criticise or to complain:

- This situation can't continue. **It's time** you **did** something about it.

- He's very selfish. **It's time** he **realised** that he isn't the most important person in the world.

You can also say **It's about time** ... . This makes the criticism stronger:

- Jack is a great talker. But **it’s about time** he **did** something instead of just talking.
