# Would

We use **would ('d) / wouldn't** when we imagine a situation or action (= we think of something that is
not real):

- It **would be** nice to buy a new car, but we can't afford it.

- **I’d love** to live by the sea.

- `A` : Shall I tell Chris what happened?

   `B` : No, **I wouldn't say** anything.
(= I wouldn’t say anything in your situation)

We use **would have (done)** when we imagine situations
or actions in the past (= things that didn't happen):

- They helped us a lot. I don’t know what **we'd have done**
(= we would have done) without their help.

- I didn't tell Sam what happened. He **wouldn't have been pleased**.

Compare would (do) and would have (done):

- I **would call** Lisa, but I don’t have her number. (*now*)

    I **would have called** Lisa, but I didn't have her number. (*past*)

- I'm not going to invite them to the party. They wouldn't come anyway.

    I didn't invite them to the party. They wouldn't have come anyway.

---

Compare **will ('ll)** and **would ('d)**:

- **I'll stay** a little longer. I’ve got plenty of time.

    **I'd stay** a little longer, but I really have to go now. (so I can't stay longer)

- **I'll call** Lisa. I have her number.

    **I'd call** Lisa, but I don't have her number, (so I can't call her)

Sometimes **would/wouldn't** is the past of **will/won't**. Compare:

| *Present* | *Past* |
| --------- | ------ |
| `TOM` : **I'll call** you on Sunday. | Tom said **he'd call** me on Sunday.|
| `AMY` : I promise **I won't be** late. | Amy promised that **she wouldn't** be late. |
| `LISA` : Damn! The car **won't start**. | Lisa was annoyed because her car **wouldn't start** |

Somebody **wouldn't do** something = he/she refused to do it:

- I tried to warn him, but he** wouldn't listen** to me. (= he refused to listen)

- The car **wouldn't start**. (= it ‘refused’ to start)

---

You can also use **would** to talk about things that happened regularly in the past:

- When we were children, we lived by the sea. In summer, if the weather was fine, we **would all get up** early and go for a swim. (= we did this regularly)

- Whenever Richard was angry, he **would walk** out of the room.

With this meaning, **would** is similar to **used to**:

- Whenever Richard was angry, he **used to walk** out of the room
