# Can/Could/Would you ...

**Asking people to do things (requests)**

We use **can** or **could** to ask people to do things:

- **Can you** wait a momment, please?

    *or* **Could you**  wait a momment, please?

- Helen, **can you** do me a favour?

- Excuse me, **could you** tell me how to get to the airpot?

Note that we say **Do you think** you **could** ... (*not can*)

- **Do you think you could** take me to the station?

We also use **will/ would** to ask people to do things (but **can/could** are more usual)

- Helen, **will you** do me a favour?

- **Would you** please be quiet? I'm trying to concentrate.

---

**Asking for things**

To ask for something, we use **Can I have** ... ? / **Could I have** ... ? or **Can I get**

- (*in a shop*) **Can I have** these postcards, please? *or*

    Can I get these postcards, please?

- (*during a meal*) **Could I have** the salt, please?

**May I have** ... ? is also possible:

- May I have these postcards, please?

---

**Asking to do things**

To ask to do something, we use **can, could** or **may**:

- (*on the phone*) Hello, **can I** speak to Steve, please?

- '**Could I** use your phone?' 'Sure.'

- **Do you think I could** borrow your bike?

- '**May I** come in?' 'Yes, please do.'

**May** is more formal than **can** or **could**.

To ask to do something, you can also say **Do you mind if I** ... ?
or **Is it all right / Is it OK** if I ... ?:

- 'Do you mind if I use your phone?' 'Sure. Go ahead.'

- 'Is it all right if I come in?' 'Yes, of course.'

---

**Offering to do things**

To offer to do something, we use **Can I** ... ?:

- '**Can I** get you a cup of coffee?' 'That would be nice.'

- '**Can I** help you?' 'No, it's all right. I can manage.'

---

**Offering and inviting**

To offer or to invite, we use **Would you like** ... ? (*not* Do you like):

- '**Would you like** a cup of coffee?' ‘Yes, please.'

- '**Would you like** to eat with us tonight?' 'I'd love to.'

**I'd like** ... is a polite way of saying what you want:

- (*at a tourist information office*) **I'd like** some information about hotels, please.

- (*in a shop*) **I'd like** to try on this jacket, please.
