# Present Simple

Alex is a bus driver, but now he is in bed asleep.
He is not driving a bus. (He is asleep.)
but He **drives** a bus. (He is a bus driver.)
**Drive(s)/work(s)/do(es) etc.** is the present simple:

- I/we/you/they **drive/do/work** etc.
- he/she/it **drives/works/does** etc.

We use the present simple to talk about things in general. We use it to say that something happens all
the time or repeatedly, or that something is true in general:
- Nurses **look** after patients in hospitals.
- I usually **go** away at weekends.
- The earth **goes** round the sun.
- The cafe **opens** at 7.30 in the morning.

We use **do/does** to make questions and negative sentences:
- **Do** I/we/you/they **work/drive/do**?
- **Does** he/she/it **work/drive/do**?
- I/we/you/they **don't work/drive/do**
- He/she/it **doesn't work/drive/do**

Example:

- I come from Canada. Where **do** you **come** from?
- I **don't go** away very often.
- What **does** this word **mean**? (not What means this word?)
- Rice **doesn't grow** in cold climates.

We use the present simple to say how often we do things:

- I **get** up at 8 o'clock **every morning**.
- **How often** do you **go** to the dentist?
- Julie **doesn't drink** tea **very often**.
- Robert usually **goes** away **two or three times a year**

Sometimes we do things by saying something. For example, when you promise to do something,
you can say '**I promise** ...'; when you suggest something, you can say ‘**I suggest**...':

- **I promise** I won't be late. (not I'm promising)
- ‘What do you **suggest** I do?' - ‘**I suggest** that you ...

In the same way we say: **I apologise** ... / **I advise** ... / **I insist**... / **I agree** ... / **I refuse** ... etc.