# Present continous and Present simple

## Present continuous (I'm doing)

We use the continuous for things happening at or around the time of speaking. The action is not complete.

(Past) ----- (**Now**) ----- (Future)

----------- **I'm doing** -----------

- The water **is boiling**. Can you turn it off?
- Listen to those people. What language **are** they **speaking**?
- Let's go out. It **isn't raining** now.

We use the continuous for *temporary* situations.

- **I'm living** with some friends until I find a place of my own.

## Present simple (I do)

We use the simple for things in general or things that happen repeatedly.

- Water **boils** at 100 degree Celsius.
- Excuse me, **do** you **speak** English?
- It **doesn't rain** very much this summer.

We use the continuous for *permanent* situations.

- My parents **live** in London. They have lived there all their lives.

## Always do and Always do-ing

**I always do** (something) = I do it evey time.
- I alway go to work by car.

**I'm always doing** (something) = it is not my intention,  but too often.
- I'm always losing things = I lose thing very often, perhaps too often, or more often than normal.

---

We use continuous forms for actions and happenings that have started but not finished (they are
eating / it is raining etc.).

Some verbs (for example, **know** and **like**) are not normally used in this way. We don't say *'I am knowing'* or *‘they are liking'*; we say **‘I know', 'they like'**.

The following verbs are not normally used in the present continuous:
```
like want need prefer know realise suppose mean understand believe remember belong fit contain consist seem
```

- I'm hungry. I **want** something to eat.
- Do you **understand** what I **mean**?

## Think

When think means ‘believe' or ‘have an opinion', we do not use the continuous:

- I **think** Mary is Canadian, but I'm not sure, (not I'm thinking)
- What do you **think** of my plan? (= What is your opinion?)

When think means ‘consider', the continuous is possible:

- I'm **thinking** about what happened. I often **think** about it.
- Nicky is **thinking** of giving up her job. (= she is considering it)

## See/hear/smell/taste

We normally use the present simple (not continuous) with these verbs:

- Do you see that man over there? (not Are you seeing)
- This room smells. Let's open a window.

We often use **can + see/hear/smell/taste**:

- We often use can + see/hear/smell/taste:

## Look/feel

You can use the present simple or continuous to say how somebody looks or feels now:

- You look well today, **or** You're looking well today

- How do you feel now? **or** How are you feeling now?

## He is selfish and He is being selfish

He's **being** = He's behaving / He's acting. Compare:

- I can't understand why he's **being so selfish**. He isn’t usually like that.
(being selfish = behaving selfishly at the moment)

- He never thinks about other people. He is very selfish, (not He is being)
(= He is selfish generally, not only at the moment)

We use **am/is/are being** to say how somebody is **behaving**. It is not usually possible in other
sentences:

- It's hot today, (not It is being hot)
- Sarah is very tired, (not is being tired)