# How long have you (been) ...

Dan and Jenny are married. They got married exactly
20 years ago, so today is their 20th wedding anniversary.

They **have been** married **for 20 years**.

We say: They **are** married, (present)

*but* **How long have** they **been** married? (**present perfect**)
(**not** How long are they married?)

They **have been married** **for 20 years**.
(not They are married for 20 years)

---

We use the present perfect to talk about something that began in the past and still continues now.
Compare the *present* and the *present perfect*:

- Paul is in hospital.
    - *but* **He's been** in hospital **since Monday**.
- Do you know each other well?
    - *but* **Have you known** each other **for a long time**?

---

I have **known/had/lived** etc. is the *present perfect simple*.

I **have been learning / been waiting / been doing** etc. is the *present perfect continuous*

When we ask or say ‘how long', the continuous is more usual.

Some verbs (for example, know/like/believe) are not normally used in the continuous.

---

You can use either the present perfect continuous or simple with **live** and **work**

- Julia **has been living / has lived** here for a long time.
- How long **have you been working** / **have you worked** here?

But use the simple (**I've lived / I've done** etc.) with always:

- **I've always lived** in the country, (not always been living)

---

We say '**I haven't done** something **since/for** ...' (present perfect simple):

- I **haven’t seen** Tom **since Monday**. (= Monday was the last time I saw him)
- Sarah **hasn't phoned for ages**. (= the last time she phoned was ages ago)
